# Trivial space playground

Trivial space started as an art project back in 2012 to explore the
possibilities of current web technologies as presentation platform for virtual
art spaces.

Since a first prototype and exhibition in 2013, the main focus shifted to
improve the technical workflow for creating and developing such virtual
exhibition spaces. During a long research and learning period, some
interconnected programming libraries and tools evolved, that improve the
creation of web based virtual reality by code. Together they enable a live
coding environment for WebGL scenes, with hot JavaScript and shader code
reloading as well as controlled application and WebGL state preservation in live
coding sessions.

This workflow builds on following libraries:

- [Painter](https://github.com/trivial-space/painter), a WebGL rendering engine
  for live coding.
- [Libs](https://github.com/trivial-space/libs), a collection of useful
  functions and helpers.

This playground is the primary testing environment for these libraries. Here
first experiments are run, while working both on the programming tools as well
as on artistic expressions.

Basically everything here is work in progress. There are some satisfying
intermediate results that are published frequently to
[construction.trivialspace.net](https://construction.trivialspace.net), which is
just a statically hosted version of the `public` folder of this repository.

Eventually, the work evolving here will lead to a relaunch of the
[trivial space](https://trivialspace.net) platform. Until then, this playground
and the [trivial space repository](https://github.com/trivial-space) are the
main places where progress and updates can be observed.

## Local development

To install the playground locally and play with the sketches and technologies,
clone this repository, and run

    npm run git-init
    npm run install
    npm run start

The drafts within a (hopefully) working live coding environment will be
available at `localhost:8080`.

## Credits

Great inspiration was drawn from the creative and encouraging communities behind
[Three.js](https://threejs.org/), [Stack.gl](https://github.com/stackgl) and
others pioneering immersive WebGL experiences.

Thanks also to the people and teams behind
[TypeScript](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript) and
[Webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack). These tools provide a major
upgrade in terms of productivity and development comfort.

## License

MIT, see the LICENSE file in the repository.

Copyright (c) 2016 - 2021 Thomas Gorny
